# i3

[i3 manual](https://i3wm.org/docs/userguide.html#configuring)

Configuration files for the i3 window manager. These config files are also likely to work with `i3-gaps` too.

Applications that should be installed along with i3:

- i3bar, application that renders the status bar
- i3status, application that generates the data fot i3bar and other status bars
- i3lock, application to handle screen locking

## config

`config` file contains the main i3 configuration. This includes the base autogenerated config and custom user config. This file should be located under `~/.config/i3/config`

```bash
cp config ~/.config/i3/config
```

## i3status.conf

[i3status manual](https://i3wm.org/i3status/manpage.html)

i3status contains the configuration for the i3status application. i3status provides a status bar at the top of the screen. This file should be located under `~/.config/i3/i3status.conf`

```bash
cp i3status.conf ~/.config/i3/i3status.conf
```

### Setting up status bar

There are a few things that might need changing in order for the i3status bar to work correctly.

Firstly the network device information might need changing. This is located in the `order`, `wireless` and `ethernet` sections of the config file.

It is possible that you will have to change the device name used for these status segements. To find the new values run the following commands

- `ip link`, this should list all of the linked internet devices.
- `iw dev`, this should list the wifi device information.

Chnage the device name, e.g. `wlp1s0`, to the new name you found.
